Updated the troubleshooting guide for cluster health/statuses (#641)
run-ai/docs: docs/admin/troubleshooting/cluster-health-check.md

# Cluster Health and Troubleshooting

## Cluster is Disconnected

> When a cluster is in the status “Disconnected”, this means that no communication from the Run:ai cluster services reaches the Run:ai Control Plane. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a cluster's status shows “Disconnected”, this means that no communication from the Run:ai cluster services reaches the Run:ai Control Plane. 
```

> This may reflect a networking issue from or to your Kubernetes cluster regardless of Run:ai components. In some cases, it may indicate an issue with one or more Run:ai services that communicate with the Control Plane, which are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This may reflect a networking issue from or to your Kubernetes cluster regardless of Run:ai components. In some cases, it may indicate an issue with one or more Run:ai services that communicate with the Control Plane. These are:
```

* Cluster sync (`cluster-sync`)
* Agent (`runai-agent`)
* Asset sync (`asset-sync`)

### Troubleshooting actions:

> * First, check that the Run:ai services that communicate with the Control Plane are up and running.

Reviewer: @gal-revach are these steps in a procedure? If yes, then they need to be changed to a numbered list - meaning `1.` and `2.` etc. If you want to make the suggested change let me know. If not then I will merge and make the adjustments myself.

Author: @jasonnovichRunAI we can do that as a procedure because they come one after the other... I just didn't find a way to make it look nice. If you have a way to do it it seems good to me

  Run:

  `kubectl get pods -n runai | grep -E 'runai-agent|cluster-sync|assets-sync'`

* Verify Run:ai services logs. Inspecting the logs of the Run:ai services that communicate with the CP is an essential first step to identify any error messages or connection issues.

  Run the following command on each one of the services:

  ```
  kubectl logs runai-agent -n runai
  kubectl logs cluster-sync -n runai
  kubectl logs assets-sync -n runai
  ```

* Check the network connection from the runai namespace in your cluster to the Control Plane. You can do that by running a connectivity check pod.

>   Create a pod within the runai namespace. This pod can be a simple container with basic network troubleshooting tools, such as curl or get. Use the following command to determine if the pod can establish connections to the necessary Control Plane endpoints:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Create a pod within the runai namespace. This pod can be a simple container with basic network troubleshooting tools, such as `curl` or `get`. Use the following command to determine if the pod can establish connections to the necessary Control Plane endpoints:
```

  `kubectl run control-plane-connectivity-check -n runai --image=wbitt/network-multitool --command -- /bin/sh -c 'curl -sSf <control-plane-endpoint> > /dev/null && echo "Connection Successful" || echo "Failed connecting to the Control Plane"'`

  Replace `control-plane-endpoint` with the URL of the Control Plane in your environment.

> * Check potential network issues. You can use the following guidelines:

Author: @jasonnovichRunAI the reason I wrote "you can" is because these are not necessarily all the steps that can be done... I want to emphasize that these guidelines should help you but you may have other options to check the network in your env. How can we do that?

>     * Ensure that the network policies in your Kubernetes cluster allow communication between the Run:ai services that communicate with the Control Plane to the Control Plane.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Ensure that the network policies in your Kubernetes cluster allow communication between the Control Plane and the Run:ai services that communicate with the Control Plane.
```
@gal-revach WDYT - is this what you meant?

Author: @jasonnovichRunAI I actually want to say that the Run:ai services that need to reach the Control Plane can to that with the network policies in the cluster.

```suggestion
    * Ensure that the network policies in your Kubernetes cluster allow the Run:ai services that should communicate with the Control Plane to do so.
```
WDYT about that?

   
    * Check both Kubernetes Network Policies and any network-related configurations at the infrastructure level.
  
    * Verify that the required ports and protocols are not blocked. 

* Contact Run:ai Support

>   If the issue persists and you couldn’t resolve it after completing the above steps, contact Run:ai support for assistance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  If the issue persists, and you couldn’t resolve it after completing the above steps, contact Run:ai support for assistance.
```

!!! Note 

>     The above steps can also be relevant if you installed the cluster and it is stuck in the status “Waiting to connect” for a long time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The above steps can be used if you installed the cluster and the status is stuck in “Waiting to connect” for a long time.
```

## Cluster has Service issues

> When a cluster is in the status “Service issues”, this means that one or more Run:ai services that are running in the cluster are not available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a cluster's status shows “Service issues”, this means that one or more Run:ai services that are running in the cluster are not available.
```

> * In this case, first run the following command, to verify which are the non-functioning services, and get more details about deployment issues and resources required by these services that may not be ready (e.g. ingress is was not created or is unhealthy): 

Reviewer: @gal-revach Same as before. If this is a start of a procedure, then use a numbered list.
```suggestion
* First run the following command, to verify which are the non-functioning services, and get more details about deployment issues and resources required by these services that may not be ready (for example, ingress was not created or is unhealthy): 
```

  `kubectl get runaiconfig -n runai runai -ojson | jq -r '.status.conditions | map(select(.type == "Available"))'`

  The list of non-functioning services is also available on the UI Clusters page.

> * After determining the non-functioning services, you can use the following guidelines to further investigate the issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* After determining the non-functioning services, use the following guidelines to further investigate the issue.
```

  Get all Kubernetes events and look for recent failures:

  `Kubectl get events  -A`

>   If a required resource was created but not available or unhealthy, you can also check its details by running:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  If a required resource was created but not available or unhealthy, check its details by running:
```

  `Kubectl describe <resource_type> <name>`

> * If the issue persists and you couldn’t resolve it, contact Run:ai support for assistance. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If the issue persists and you could not resolve it, contact Run:ai support for assistance. 
```

## General tests to verify the Run:ai cluster health

> In addition of the troubleshooting options described above, regardless of the cluster status, you can use the following tests regularly, to determine the Run:ai cluster health.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the following tests regularly to determine the health of the Run:ai cluster in addition to the troubleshooting options described above, regardless of the cluster status.
```

  Create a pod within the runai namespace. This pod can be a simple container with basic network troubleshooting tools, such as curl or get. Use the following command to determine if the pod can establish connections to the necessary Control Plane endpoints:

  `kubectl run control-plane-connectivity-check -n runai --image=wbitt/network-multitool --command -- /bin/sh -c 'curl -sSf <control-plane-endpoint> > /dev/null && echo "Connection Successful" || echo "Failed connecting to the Control Plane"'`

  Replace `control-plane-endpoint` with the URL of the Control Plane in your environment.

* Check potential network issues. You can use the following guidelines:
  
    * Ensure that the network policies in your Kubernetes cluster allow communication between the Run:ai services that communicate with the Control Plane to the Control Plane.
   
    * Check both Kubernetes Network Policies and any network-related configurations at the infrastructure level.
  
    * Verify that the required ports and protocols are not blocked. 

* Contact Run:ai Support

  If the issue persists and you couldn’t resolve it after completing the above steps, contact Run:ai support for assistance.

> !!! Note 

Author: @jasonnovichRunAI Is this the right way to add a note? in the preview it doesn't look like the notes I see in our documentation

* Go to __Projects__ and create a new Project. Find the new Project using the CLI command: `runai list projects`

### Verify that the Run:ai services are running

Run:

> ```
> kubectl get runaiconfig -n runai runai -ojson | jq -r '.status.conditions | map(select(.type == "Available"))'
> ```
> Verify that all the Run:ai services are available and have all their required resources available as well.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
kubectl get runaiconfig -n runai runai -ojson | jq -r '.status.conditions | map(select(.type == "Available"))'
```

Verify that all the Run:ai services are available and have all their required resources available as well.

```

Run:
```
kubectl get pods -n runai
kubectl get pods -n monitoring
```
Verify that all pods are in `Running` status and a ready state (1/1 or similar)

Run:

> 

Reviewer: @gal-revach markdown needs a space between start and end of code blocks. Do you want to make the changes or should I?

Author: @jasonnovichRunAI OK, in the preview it looked OK. If you can please add it, it would be great

* Verify that the Job is showing in the Jobs area at `<company-name>.run.ai/jobs`.

### Submit a Job via the user interface

Log into the Run:ai user interface, and verify that you have a `Researcher` or `Research Manager` role. 

> Go to the `Jobs` area. On the top right, press the button to create a Job. Once the form opens -- submit a Job. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Go to the `Jobs` area. On the top right, press the button to create a Job. Once the form opens, you can submit a Job. 
```
